Let's see another example which will help you to get familiar with smuggling and also will enhance your
thinking in modeling problems.
This is a spring damper system from the previous section was a but here is a displacement x.
This displacement moves as a spring K and as a result the mass moves a displacement y and also there
is a number which resist the motion we have drive the equation of system as m y the blot blasts see
white dot plus K Y equals two K X. What we are going to do in this video is building the symbol link
multiple of this system and simulated with an input.
For example a step inputs in order to build this model we need first to think how to relate to output
to the input of this system.
The first step of relating is the output of the system to the input is to write the equation of motion
in the form of why the blue dot equals to 1 over M times K X minus C Y dot minus K Y.
Now think about it.
If we integrated y the block two times we will get the output y.
This is the left hand side and you can easily build the right hand side each time you'll make the integration.
So after integrating y level DOT for the first time we guns a Wyandotte signal we can take the signal
and multiplied by a gain which is C or is it then being coefficient and feed it back to a summing point.
Similarly after integrating y double lot for the second time we got Y and then multiplied by again K
which is the stiffness of the spring and feed it back to the summing point adding all of this was inputs
X will complete the model so let's see Z in the symbol link as you can see I have built and you model
and from the late Peri common use blocks I will add an integrator
and I would copy at so we can use one to integrate why the blocks and the other want to integrate why
it ought to get Y.
Now I will add three gains for 1 over M C and K.
Again this is very simple just drag and drop one block and copy paste the others I will drag this guy
here into forward path and make is a wiring
and others are for the feedback signals so I need to reverse or flip the directions of this plug simply
by right click ziplock select rotate them flap and flap ziplock
now I will do the wiring the first one take the signal from the integration of why they will not which
is why not.
So this game is a damping see the other one takes the signal from the integration of y dot.
So this is a gain of stiffness k now as you can see in the right hand side of the equation I have built
these terms K Y and see why adult to complete the forward path I will add a scoop to show the graph
of the output
and I will add a summing point
I will double click the summing point and change its shape to rectangle very easy and I will make it
something sorry signals the first signal is positive and the second and third signals are negative
again by looking at the equation I need to subtract these two signals from each other.
So I will drag these two signals to the negative sign in the summing point.
Now I need to add an input which represents x of t and this input is multiplied by stiffness case.
So first I will drag and drop a gain and completes the wiring
now for the inputs.
I will use as tip input from sources blocks.
I will drag and drop step source and wire it to the game plan
to complete the model.
We need to define the values of the gains.
So assumes that the mass equals to 25 kg then being coefficients C equal to one hundred and fifty Newton
times second over meter the stiffness equals to forty K Newton perimeter.
So this game is 1 over m.
So 1 over 25 this guy here is 150.
This one is forty K
and the last one which is also k equals to forty k.
Now another look at the model we have built the input x which is a step input is multiplied by K and
is feed it to the summing point and then sub a circuit from these two signals which are why the time
C and Y times K Z result signal is in multiplied by one over m to get Y the Bulldogs now integrate y
the blue dot for the first time to get y dot you can feed the signal back and Y is integrated to Y which
is angled and again we can complete the model by feeding this signal back.
Finally a scoop is used to show the result.
This is a step m but so I can double click it to change its properties.
For example this is a unit step but I can change this number to any other number.
Now let's run this model and see as a result.
But first I will reduce a simulating time to 5 seconds
the system behavior is shown in the figure as there are some oscillations in the system which are reduced
by time until disappear.